Alpha Tabs docs (#1287)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/@react-spectrum/tabs/docs/Tabs.mdx

        <Text>There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.</Text>
      </Content>
    </Item>
    <Item title="Joe Bloggs" key="item3">
      <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
        <Text>There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.</Text>
      </Content>
    </Item>
  </Tabs>
</Flex>
```

### Orientation
[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/tabs/#Orientation)

```tsx example
<Tabs aria-label="Chat log orientation example" orientation="vertical">
  <Item title="John Doe" key="item1">
    <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
      <Text>There is no prior chat history with John Doe.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
  <Item title="Jane Doe" key="item2">
    <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
      <Text>There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
  <Item title="Joe Bloggs" key="item3">
    <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
      <Text>There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
</Tabs>
```

### Collapse (overflow behavior)
[View guidelines](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/tabs/#Too-many-tabs)

> If there isn't enough horizontal room to render every tab on a single line, Tabs will collapse all tabs into a picker menu. Note that this does not apply to vertical Tabs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there isn't enough horizontal room to render every tab on a single line, the component will collapse all tabs into a `Picker`. Note that this does not apply to vertical Tabs.
```

Try the example below to see the above behavior.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let [collapse, setCollapse] = React.useState(false)

  return (
    <>
      <div style={{width: collapse ? '100px' : '300px', marginBottom: '50px', height: '150px', maxWidth: '100%'}}>
        <Tabs aria-label="Chat log collapse example">
          <Item title="John Doe" key="item1">
            <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
              <Text>There is no prior chat history with John Doe.</Text>
            </Content>
          </Item>
          <Item title="Jane Doe" key="item2">
            <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
              <Text>There is no prior chat history with Jane Doe.</Text>
            </Content>
          </Item>
          <Item title="Joe Bloggs" key="item3">
            <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
              <Text>There is no prior chat history with Joe Bloggs.</Text>
            </Content>
          </Item>
        </Tabs>
      </div>

>       <Button onPress={() => setCollapse((collapse) => !collapse)}>

Reviewer 2: Needs a variant.

```suggestion
      <Button variant="primary" onPress={() => setCollapse((collapse) => !collapse)}>
```

<!-- Copyright 2020 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/tabs';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-spectrum/tabs/package.json';

```jsx import
import {Flex} from '@react-spectrum/layout';
import {Heading} from '@react-spectrum/text';
import {Item, Tabs} from '@react-spectrum/tabs';
```

---

> category: Collections

Author: Not sure if Tabs belongs in `Collections` or in a category by itself

  ];

  return (
    <Tabs aria-label="Mesozoic time periods" items={tabs} keyboardActivation="manual">
      {item => (
        <Item title={item.name} key={item.name}>
          <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
            <Text>
              {item.children}
            </Text>
          </Content>
        </Item>
      )}
    </Tabs>
  );
}
```

## Complex Items
Items within Tabs allow for a degree of customization. The `title` prop accepts any renderable node, allowing for things like icons to be added to the Tab title. Be sure to include a `textValue` prop to your item so that typeahead
still works if the Tabs [collapse](#collapse-overflow-behavior).

```tsx example
import AppleFiles from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/AppleFiles';
import Book from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/Book';
import {IllustratedMessage} from '@react-spectrum/illustratedmessage';
import Unauthorized from '@spectrum-icons/illustrations/Unauthorized';
import UserShare from '@spectrum-icons/workflow/UserShare';

function Example() {
  let unauthorizedPage = (heading) => (
    <Content marginTop="size-250">
      <Heading marginStart="size-125">{heading}</Heading>

>       <IllustratedMessage>

Author: haha, was an attempt at making a fancier set of tabs that was a bit more realistic (renderable nodes in the tab title and the tab panel contents). I can go ahead and make it have a different illustrated message per tab if that sounds good

from happening automatically you can set the `keyboardActivation` prop to "manual". This will prevent tab selection from changing on arrow key press, requiring a subsequent `Enter` or `Space` key press to confirm
tab selection.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let tabs = [
    {name: 'Triassic', children: 'The Triassic ranges roughly from 252 million to 201 million years ago, preceding the Jurassic Period.'},
    {name: 'Jurassic', children: 'The Jurassic ranges from 200 million years to 145 million years ago.'},
    {name: 'Cretaceous', children: 'The Cretaceous is the longest period of the Mesozoic, spanning from 145 million to 66 years ago.'}
  ];

  return (
    <Tabs aria-label="Mesozoic time periods" items={tabs} keyboardActivation="manual">
      {item => (
        <Item title={item.name} key={item.name}>
          <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
            <Text>
              {item.children}
            </Text>
          </Content>
        </Item>
      )}
    </Tabs>
  );
}
```

> ## Complex Items

Reviewer: This way of adding content to a title prop I think should be handled differently via API. Devon and I have discussed how to better handle complex Tab titles (maybe using children) but haven't come up with anything concrete. I think until we put some more thought into how we manage it, having this section seems premature. I would suggest removing Complex Items so that we do not advertise a particular method. 
Thoughts?

Author: That sounds fine, I'll go ahead and do that

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. -->

import {Layout} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default Layout;

import docs from 'docs:@react-spectrum/tabs';
import {HeaderInfo, PropTable} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
import packageData from '@react-spectrum/tabs/package.json';

```jsx import
import {Flex} from '@react-spectrum/layout';
import {Heading} from '@react-spectrum/text';
import {Item, Tabs} from '@react-spectrum/tabs';
```

---
category: Collections
keywords: [tabs, collections]
---

# Tabs

<p>{docs.exports.Tabs.description}</p>

<HeaderInfo
  packageData={packageData}
  componentNames={['Tabs', 'Item']}
  sourceData={[
    {type: 'Spectrum', url: 'https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/tabs/'}
  ]} />

## Example
```tsx example
import {Content} from '@react-spectrum/view';
import {Text} from '@react-spectrum/text';

<Tabs aria-label="History of Ancient Rome">
  <Item title="Founding of Rome" key="FoR">

>     <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">

Author: It is not necessary for all of them (or really any of them since we can just use any old renderable node) but I found them useful for the margins and it kinda just made the code make more sense (delineates between the Tab and the Tab's contents).

When you say "build the margins into the tabs component" do you mean slapping these margin value into the tab panel div or adding them as a default and giving the user the ability to customize the tab panel's styles directly through some prop? I was thinking using `Content` would allow users to size/position their tab panels according to their needs, like if they wanted a negative margin so that the content could be offset to the left of the tablist

>     <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">

Reviewer 2: Yeah I meant include on the tab panel itself. Seems like spectrum would have an opinion on what that margin would be. I guess we should ask them.

>     <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">

Author: Spectrum said they didn't have guidelines for the padding, but generally recommend no left/right padding and a top alignment that works with the product design. I would like to keep this `Content` bit so that end users have examples of how to adjust alignment, lemme know what you think

      <Text>Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
  <Item title="Monarchy and Republic" key="MaR">
    <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
      <Text>Senatus Populusque Romanus.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
  <Item title="Empire" key="libraries">
    <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
      <Text>Alea jacta est.</Text>
    </Content>
  </Item>
</Tabs>
```

## Content
Tabs follows the [Collection Components](../react-stately/collections.html) API, accepting both static and dynamic collections. Similar to [Menu](Menu.html), Tabs accepts `<Item>` elements as children,

> each with a `key` prop. However, unlike the other Collection components, the Tab itself is defined via props passed to the `<Item>` element whereas the contents of the Tab's panel are defined by the `<Item>` element's children.

Author: Ah, didn't realize that about Tree and Accordion, I can drop the "unlike the other Collection components" bit if you'd like. Will wait for consensus here

> each with a `key` prop. However, unlike the other Collection components, the Tab itself is defined via props passed to the `<Item>` element whereas the contents of the Tab's panel are defined by the `<Item>` element's children.

Reviewer: Yeah I think we can drop the "unlike" since calling out the difference won't mean much when other components come in.

Each item accepts a key prop, which is passed to the `onSelectionChange` handler to identify the selected item. Alternatively, if the item objects contain an `id` property, as shown in the example below, then this is used automatically and a `key` prop is not required.
See the [Events](#events) section for more detail on selection.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let tabs = [
    {id: 1, name: 'Founding of Rome', children: 'Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.'},
    {id: 2, name: 'Monarchy and Republic', children: 'Senatus Populusque Romanus.'},
    {id: 3, name: 'Empire', children: 'Alea jacta est.'}
  ];
  let [tabId, setTabId] = React.useState('1');

  return (
    <>
      <p>Current tab id: {tabId}</p>
      <Tabs aria-label="History of Ancient Rome" items={tabs} onSelectionChange={setTabId}>
        {item => (
          <Item title={item.name}>
            <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
              <Text>
                {item.children}
              </Text>
            </Content>
          </Item>
        )}
      </Tabs>
    </>
  );
}
```

### Internationalization

> To internationalize Tabs, a localized string should be passed to the `title` or [`textValue`](#complex-items) of each `Item`. Any text content within the Tab's panel should also be localized accordingly.

Author: yeah it is always required but I was thinking of icon only tabs where there wouldn't be a string supplied to `title`. I'll leave out the `textValue` bit here and expand in the `complex-items section`

For languages that are read right-to-left (e.g. Hebrew and Arabic), the layout of Tabs is automatically flipped.

## Labeling
### Accessibility

> Tabs should be labeled using `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby` to identify the tab list for accessibility.

Author: Sounds good, rewrote it a bit and added a link to explain landmarks, lemme know what you think

  <Tabs aria-labelledby="label-1">
    <Item title="Founding of Rome" key="FoR">
      <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
        <Text>
          Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui primus ab oris.
        </Text>
      </Content>
    </Item>
    <Item title="Monarchy and Republic" key="MaR">
      <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
        <Text>
          Senatus Populusque Romanus.
        </Text>
      </Content>
    </Item>
    <Item title="Empire" key="libraries">
      <Content marginTop="size-250" marginStart="size-125">
        <Text>
          Alea jacta est.
        </Text>
      </Content>
    </Item>
  </Tabs>
</>
```

## Selection
Setting a selected tab can be done by using the `defaultSelectedKey` or `selectedKey` prop. The selected key corresponds to the `key` of an item. See [Events](#events) for more details on selection events.

```tsx example
function Example() {
  let tabs = [
    {id: 1, name: 'Keyboard Settings', children: 'No keyboard detected.'},
    {id: 2, name: 'Mouse Settings', children: 'No mouse detected.'},
    {id: 3, name: 'Gamepad Settings', children: 'No gamepad detected'}
  ];

>   let [tab, setTab] = React.useState("2");

Author: derp, forgot to flip after I fixed non string ids for tabs, thanks for catching

      icon: <AppleFiles />,
      children: unauthorizedPage({
        heading: 'Files',
        illustratedMessage: <Unauthorized />,
        errorMessage: (
          <>
            <Heading>Error 401: Unauthorized</Heading>
            <Content>You don’t have access to this page. Please login to view.</Content>
          </>
        )
      })
    },
    {
      name: 'Shared with you',
      icon: <UserShare />,
      children: unauthorizedPage({
        heading: 'Shared Files',
        illustratedMessage: <NoSearchResults />,
        errorMessage: (
          <Heading>No Results.</Heading>
        )
      })
    },
    {
      name: 'Libraries',
      icon: <Book />,
      children: unauthorizedPage({
        heading: 'Available Libraries',
        illustratedMessage: <Unavailable />,
        errorMessage: (
          <>
            <Heading>Error 503: Service Unavailable</Heading>
            <Content>This page isn’t available right now. Try visiting this page again later.</Content>
          </>
        )
      })
    }
  ];

  return (
    <Tabs aria-label="File Library" items={tabs}>
      {item => (
        <Item
          key={item.name}
          title={
            <>

>               {item.icon}

Author: Good call, I've gone ahead and added this to the TabPicker component. I wonder if we should instead provide this `size: "S"` to a SlotProvider wrapping the Picker's overlay or at the ListBox level...
